CI-Examples/ra-tls-mbedtls/README.md, before:

# RA-TLS Minimal Example

This directory contains the Makefile, the template server manifest, and the
minimal server and client written against the mbedTLS library.

The server and client are based on `ssl_server.c` and `ssl_client1.c` example
programs shipped with mbedTLS. We modified them to allow using RA-TLS flows if
the programs are given the command-line argument `epid`/`dcap`.  In particular,
the server uses a self-signed RA-TLS cert with the SGX quote embedded in it via
`ra_tls_create_key_and_crt()`. The client uses an RA-TLS verification callback
to verify the server RA-TLS certificate via `ra_tls_verify_callback()`.

This example uses the RA-TLS libraries `ra_tls_attest.so` for server and
`ra_tls_verify_epid.so`/ `ra_tls_verify_dcap.so` for client. These libraries are
found under `Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/tools/ra-tls`. Additionally, mbedTLS
libraries are required to correctly run RA-TLS, the client, and the server. For
ECDSA/DCAP attestation, the DCAP software infrastructure must be installed and
work correctly on the host.

The current example works with both EPID (IAS) and ECDSA (DCAP) remote
attestation schemes. For more documentation, refer to
https://graphene.readthedocs.io/en/latest/attestation.html.

## RA-TLS server

The server is supposed to run in the SGX enclave with Graphene and RA-TLS
dlopen-loaded. If RA-TLS library `ra_tls_attest.so` is not requested by user via
`epid`/`dcap` command-line argument, the server falls back to using normal X.509
PKI flows (specified as `native` command-line argument).

If server is run with more command-line arguments (the only important thing is
to have at least one additional argument), then the server will maliciously
modify the SGX quote before sending to the client. This is useful for testing
purposes.

## RA-TLS client

The client is supposed to run on a trusted machine (*not* in an SGX enclave). If
RA-TLS library `ra_tls_verify_epid.so` or `ra_tls_verify_dcap.so` is not
requested by user via `epid` or `dcap` command-line arguments respectively, the
client falls back to using normal X.509 PKI flows (specified as `native`
command-line argument).

It is also possible to run the client in an SGX enclave. This will create a
secure channel between two Graphene SGX processes, possibly running on different
machines. It can be used as an example of in-enclave remote attestation and
verification.

If client is run without additional command-line arguments, it uses default
RA-TLS verification callback that compares `MRENCLAVE`, `MRSIGNER`,
`ISV_PROD_ID` and `ISV_SVN` against the corresonding `RA_TLS_*` environment
variables. To run the client with its own verification callback, execute it with
four additional command-line arguments (see the source code for details).


# Quick Start

First, start with adding the library directory to `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`:

```sh
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:./libs
```

Remember to undo this change after finishing the tutorial (or just do everything
in a subshell).

- Normal non-RA-TLS flows; without SGX and without Graphene:

```sh
make app
./server native &
./client native
# client will successfully connect to the server via normal x.509 PKI flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, EPID-based (IAS) attestation:

```sh
# replace dummy values with your SPID, linkable setting, API key, MRENCLAVE, etc!
make clean
RA_CLIENT_SPID=12345678901234567890123456789012 RA_CLIENT_LINKABLE=0 make app epid

graphene-sgx ./server epid &

RA_TLS_EPID_API_KEY=12345678901234567890123456789012 \
RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 \
RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_MRSIGNER=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID=0 RA_TLS_ISV_SVN=0 \
./client epid

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/EPID flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, ECDSA-based (DCAP) attestation:

```sh
# make sure RA-TLS DCAP libraries are built in Graphene via:
#   cd graphene/Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/tools/ra-tls && make dcap

# replace dummy values with your MRENCLAVE, MRSIGNER, etc!
make clean
make app dcap

graphene-sgx ./server dcap &

RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 \
RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_MRSIGNER=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID=0 RA_TLS_ISV_SVN=0 \
./client dcap

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, client with its own verification callback:

```sh
# replace dummy values with your MRENCLAVE, MRSIGNER, etc!
make clean
make app dcap

graphene-sgx ./server dcap &

# arguments are: MRENCLAVE in hex, MRSIGNER in hex, ISV_PROD_ID as dec, ISV_SVN as dec
RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 ./client dcap \
    1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
    1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
    0 0

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, server sends malicious SGX quote:

```sh
make clean
make app dcap

graphene-sgx ./server dcap dummy-option &
./client dcap

# client will fail to verify the malicious SGX quote and will *not* connect to the server
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, running EPID client in SGX:

Note: you may also add environment variables to `client.manifest.template`, such
as `RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE`, `RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE`, `RA_TLS_MRSIGNER`,
`RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID` and `RA_TLS_ISV_SVN`.

```sh
make clean
RA_CLIENT_SPID=12345678901234567890123456789012 RA_CLIENT_LINKABLE=0 make app client_epid.manifest.sgx

graphene-sgx ./server epid &

RA_TLS_EPID_API_KEY=12345678901234567890123456789012 graphene-sgx ./client_epid epid

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/EPID flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Graphene, running DCAP client in SGX:

```sh
make clean
make app client_dcap.manifest.sgx

graphene-sgx ./server dcap &

graphene-sgx ./client_dcap dcap

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```

Commit message:

Rename Graphene to Gramine
Signed-off-by: Dmitrii Kuvaiskii <dmitrii.kuvaiskii@intel.com>

CI-Examples/ra-tls-mbedtls/README.md, after:

# RA-TLS Minimal Example

This directory contains the Makefile, the template server manifest, and the
minimal server and client written against the mbedTLS library.

The server and client are based on `ssl_server.c` and `ssl_client1.c` example
programs shipped with mbedTLS. We modified them to allow using RA-TLS flows if
the programs are given the command-line argument `epid`/`dcap`.  In particular,
the server uses a self-signed RA-TLS cert with the SGX quote embedded in it via
`ra_tls_create_key_and_crt()`. The client uses an RA-TLS verification callback
to verify the server RA-TLS certificate via `ra_tls_verify_callback()`.

This example uses the RA-TLS libraries `ra_tls_attest.so` for server and
`ra_tls_verify_epid.so`/ `ra_tls_verify_dcap.so` for client. These libraries are
found under `Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/tools/ra-tls`. Additionally, mbedTLS
libraries are required to correctly run RA-TLS, the client, and the server. For
ECDSA/DCAP attestation, the DCAP software infrastructure must be installed and
work correctly on the host.

The current example works with both EPID (IAS) and ECDSA (DCAP) remote
attestation schemes. For more documentation, refer to
https://gramine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/attestation.html.

## RA-TLS server

The server is supposed to run in the SGX enclave with Gramine and RA-TLS
dlopen-loaded. If RA-TLS library `ra_tls_attest.so` is not requested by user via
`epid`/`dcap` command-line argument, the server falls back to using normal X.509
PKI flows (specified as `native` command-line argument).

If server is run with more command-line arguments (the only important thing is
to have at least one additional argument), then the server will maliciously
modify the SGX quote before sending to the client. This is useful for testing
purposes.

## RA-TLS client

The client is supposed to run on a trusted machine (*not* in an SGX enclave). If
RA-TLS library `ra_tls_verify_epid.so` or `ra_tls_verify_dcap.so` is not
requested by user via `epid` or `dcap` command-line arguments respectively, the
client falls back to using normal X.509 PKI flows (specified as `native`
command-line argument).

It is also possible to run the client in an SGX enclave. This will create a
secure channel between two Gramine SGX processes, possibly running on different
machines. It can be used as an example of in-enclave remote attestation and
verification.

If client is run without additional command-line arguments, it uses default
RA-TLS verification callback that compares `MRENCLAVE`, `MRSIGNER`,
`ISV_PROD_ID` and `ISV_SVN` against the corresonding `RA_TLS_*` environment
variables. To run the client with its own verification callback, execute it with
four additional command-line arguments (see the source code for details).


# Quick Start

First, start with adding the library directory to `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`:

```sh
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:./libs
```

Remember to undo this change after finishing the tutorial (or just do everything
in a subshell).

- Normal non-RA-TLS flows; without SGX and without Gramine:

```sh
make app
./server native &
./client native
# client will successfully connect to the server via normal x.509 PKI flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, EPID-based (IAS) attestation:

```sh
# replace dummy values with your SPID, linkable setting, API key, MRENCLAVE, etc!
make clean
RA_CLIENT_SPID=12345678901234567890123456789012 RA_CLIENT_LINKABLE=0 make app epid

gramine-sgx ./server epid &

RA_TLS_EPID_API_KEY=12345678901234567890123456789012 \
RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 \
RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_MRSIGNER=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID=0 RA_TLS_ISV_SVN=0 \
./client epid

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/EPID flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, ECDSA-based (DCAP) attestation:

```sh
# make sure RA-TLS DCAP libraries are built in Gramine via:
#   cd gramine/Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/tools/ra-tls && make dcap

# replace dummy values with your MRENCLAVE, MRSIGNER, etc!
make clean
make app dcap

gramine-sgx ./server dcap &

RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 \
RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_MRSIGNER=1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID=0 RA_TLS_ISV_SVN=0 \
./client dcap

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, client with its own verification callback:

```sh
# replace dummy values with your MRENCLAVE, MRSIGNER, etc!
make clean
make app dcap

gramine-sgx ./server dcap &

# arguments are: MRENCLAVE in hex, MRSIGNER in hex, ISV_PROD_ID as dec, ISV_SVN as dec
RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE=1 ./client dcap \
    1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
    1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 \
    0 0

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, server sends malicious SGX quote:

```sh
make clean
make app dcap

gramine-sgx ./server dcap dummy-option &
./client dcap

# client will fail to verify the malicious SGX quote and will *not* connect to the server
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, running EPID client in SGX:

Note: you may also add environment variables to `client.manifest.template`, such
as `RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE`, `RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE`, `RA_TLS_MRSIGNER`,
`RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID` and `RA_TLS_ISV_SVN`.

```sh
make clean
RA_CLIENT_SPID=12345678901234567890123456789012 RA_CLIENT_LINKABLE=0 make app client_epid.manifest.sgx

gramine-sgx ./server epid &

RA_TLS_EPID_API_KEY=12345678901234567890123456789012 gramine-sgx ./client_epid epid

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/EPID flows
kill %%
```

- RA-TLS flows with SGX and with Gramine, running DCAP client in SGX:

```sh
make clean
make app client_dcap.manifest.sgx

gramine-sgx ./server dcap &

gramine-sgx ./client_dcap dcap

# client will successfully connect to the server via RA-TLS/DCAP flows
kill %%
```
