Documentation/pal/porting.rst, before:

Porting Graphene PAL
====================

.. highlight:: sh

Graphene adopts a similar architecture to the Drawbridge Library OS, which runs
a generic library OS on top of a Platform Adaptation Layer (:term:`PAL`) to
maximize platform compatibility. In this architecture, the library OS can be
easily ported to a new host by implementing only the PAL for this new host.

To port Graphene to a |~| new host platform, the only effort required is
reimplementing the PAL on the desired host platform. Most of the implementation
should be as simple as translating the PAL API to the native system interface of
the host. The implemented PAL must support :doc:`host-abi`.

In fact, even in the PAL source code, we expect part of the code to be
host-generic. To make porting Graphene easier, we deliberately separate the
source code of PAL into two parts:

* :file:`Pal/src`: Host-generic implementation.
* :file:`Pal/src/host/{host name}`: Host-specific implementation.

To port Graphene to a new host, we suggest starting with a |~| clone of
:file:`Pal/src/host/Skeleton`. This directory contains the skeleton code of all
functions that need to be implemented as part of a |~| fully compatible PAL.
Although we have tried our best to isolate any host-specific code in each host
directory, we do not guarantee that the necessary changes are only limited to
these directories. That is, you may have to modify other parts of the source
code (especially the :file:`Makefile` scripts) to complete your implementation.

Below are the steps to port Graphene PAL to a new host platform.

1. Fix compilation issues
-------------------------

For the first step to port PAL, you want to be able to build PAL as an
executable on the target host. After cloning a host-specific directory, first
modify :file:`Makefile.am` to adjust compilation rules such as :makevar:`CC`,
:makevar:`CFLAGS`, :makevar:`LDFLAGS`, :makevar:`AS` and :makevar:`ASFLAGS`. You
will also have to define the name of the loader as target ``pal`` in
:file:`Makefile.am.`

2. Build a loader
-----------------

PAL needs to run on the target host like a regular executable. To run Graphene,
PAL must initialize the proper environments and load the applications as well as
the library OS in the form of Linux ELF binaries. To start the implemention of
PAL loader, we suggest you begin with the following APIs in your host-specific
directory:

#. :file:`db_main.c`: This file must contain the entry function of your loader
   (the ``main()`` function) and APIs to retrieve host-specific information. The
   definitions of the APIs are as follows:

   + ``_DkGetAllocationAlignment`` (required): Return the allocation alignment
     (granularity) of the target platform. Some platforms have different
     allocation alignments rather than the usual page-size alignment.
   + ``_DkGetAvailableUserAddressRange`` (required): PAL must provide a |~| user
     address range that applications can use. None of these addresses should be
     used by PAL internally.
   + ``_DkGetCPUInfo`` (optional): Retrieve CPU information, such as vendor ID,
     model name.

The entry function in :file:`db_main.c` must eventually call the generic entry
point :func:`pal_main()`. The definition of :func:`pal_main()` is:

.. doxygenfunction:: pal_main
   :project: pal

#. :file:`pal_host.h`: This file needs to define the member of
   :type:`PAL_HANDLE` for handles of files, devices, pipes, sockets, threads,
   processes, etc.

#. :file:`db_files.c`: To implement a basic loader, you have to specify how to
   open, read, and map an executable file. At least `file_open`, `file_read`,
   `file_map`, `file_attrquery`, `file_attrquerybyhdl` must be implemented to
   load a basic ``HelloWorld`` program.

#. :file:`db_memory.c`: The same as :file:`db_files.c`, this file also contain
   APIs essential to PAL loader. At least `_DkCheckMemoryMappable`,
   `_DkVirtualMemoryAlloc`, `_DkVirtualMemoryFree`, `_DkVirtualMemoryProtect`
   must be implemented.

#. :file:`db_rtld.c`: This file must handle how symbols are resolved against the
   PAL loader itself, to discover the entry address of the host ABI. If the PAL
   loader is a Linux ELF binary, you may simply add a `link_map` to the
   `g_loaded_maps` list. Otherwise, you need to implement `resolve_rtld`
   function to return addresses of the host ABI by names.

You may implement the optional `_DkDebugMapAdd` and `_DkDebugMapRemove` to use
a host-specific debugger such as GDB to debug applications in Graphene.

3. Test HelloWorld without loading library OS
---------------------------------------------

In :file:`Pal/test`, we provide a test program that can run without the library
OS and directly use the :doc:`host-abi`. If you can successfully run
a |~| ``HelloWorld`` program, congratulations, you have a working PAL loader.

4. Implementing PAL host ABI
----------------------------

Now it is time to complete the whole implementation of the :doc:`host-abi`. Once
you have finished implementation, use the regression tests to confirm whether
your implementation is compatible with the PAL Host ABI. To run the regression
tests, run the following steps::

    cd Pal/regression
    make regression

5. Running application with library OS
--------------------------------------

With a completely implemented PAL, you should be able to run any applications
that are currently supported by Graphene on your new platform. Please be aware
you should not try to build any application binaries on your target host. On the
contrary, you should build them on a Linux host and ship them to your target
host.

Commit message:

Rename Graphene to Gramine
Signed-off-by: Dmitrii Kuvaiskii <dmitrii.kuvaiskii@intel.com>

Documentation/pal/porting.rst, after:

Porting Gramine PAL
===================

.. highlight:: sh

Gramine adopts a similar architecture to the Drawbridge Library OS, which runs
a generic library OS on top of a Platform Adaptation Layer (:term:`PAL`) to
maximize platform compatibility. In this architecture, the library OS can be
easily ported to a new host by implementing only the PAL for this new host.

To port Gramine to a |~| new host platform, the only effort required is
reimplementing the PAL on the desired host platform. Most of the implementation
should be as simple as translating the PAL API to the native system interface of
the host. The implemented PAL must support :doc:`host-abi`.

In fact, even in the PAL source code, we expect part of the code to be
host-generic. To make porting Gramine easier, we deliberately separate the
source code of PAL into two parts:

* :file:`Pal/src`: Host-generic implementation.
* :file:`Pal/src/host/{host name}`: Host-specific implementation.

To port Gramine to a new host, we suggest starting with a |~| clone of
:file:`Pal/src/host/Skeleton`. This directory contains the skeleton code of all
functions that need to be implemented as part of a |~| fully compatible PAL.
Although we have tried our best to isolate any host-specific code in each host
directory, we do not guarantee that the necessary changes are only limited to
these directories. That is, you may have to modify other parts of the source
code (especially the :file:`Makefile` scripts) to complete your implementation.

Below are the steps to port Gramine PAL to a new host platform.

1. Fix compilation issues
-------------------------

For the first step to port PAL, you want to be able to build PAL as an
executable on the target host. After cloning a host-specific directory, first
modify :file:`Makefile.am` to adjust compilation rules such as :makevar:`CC`,
:makevar:`CFLAGS`, :makevar:`LDFLAGS`, :makevar:`AS` and :makevar:`ASFLAGS`. You
will also have to define the name of the loader as target ``pal`` in
:file:`Makefile.am.`

2. Build a loader
-----------------

PAL needs to run on the target host like a regular executable. To run Gramine,
PAL must initialize the proper environments and load the applications as well as
the library OS in the form of Linux ELF binaries. To start the implemention of
PAL loader, we suggest you begin with the following APIs in your host-specific
directory:

#. :file:`db_main.c`: This file must contain the entry function of your loader
   (the ``main()`` function) and APIs to retrieve host-specific information. The
   definitions of the APIs are as follows:

   + ``_DkGetAllocationAlignment`` (required): Return the allocation alignment
     (granularity) of the target platform. Some platforms have different
     allocation alignments rather than the usual page-size alignment.
   + ``_DkGetAvailableUserAddressRange`` (required): PAL must provide a |~| user
     address range that applications can use. None of these addresses should be
     used by PAL internally.
   + ``_DkGetCPUInfo`` (optional): Retrieve CPU information, such as vendor ID,
     model name.

The entry function in :file:`db_main.c` must eventually call the generic entry
point :func:`pal_main()`. The definition of :func:`pal_main()` is:

.. doxygenfunction:: pal_main
   :project: pal

#. :file:`pal_host.h`: This file needs to define the member of
   :type:`PAL_HANDLE` for handles of files, devices, pipes, sockets, threads,
   processes, etc.

#. :file:`db_files.c`: To implement a basic loader, you have to specify how to
   open, read, and map an executable file. At least `file_open`, `file_read`,
   `file_map`, `file_attrquery`, `file_attrquerybyhdl` must be implemented to
   load a basic ``HelloWorld`` program.

#. :file:`db_memory.c`: The same as :file:`db_files.c`, this file also contain
   APIs essential to PAL loader. At least `_DkCheckMemoryMappable`,
   `_DkVirtualMemoryAlloc`, `_DkVirtualMemoryFree`, `_DkVirtualMemoryProtect`
   must be implemented.

#. :file:`db_rtld.c`: This file must handle how symbols are resolved against the
   PAL loader itself, to discover the entry address of the host ABI. If the PAL
   loader is a Linux ELF binary, you may simply add a `link_map` to the
   `g_loaded_maps` list. Otherwise, you need to implement `resolve_rtld`
   function to return addresses of the host ABI by names.

You may implement the optional `_DkDebugMapAdd` and `_DkDebugMapRemove` to use
a host-specific debugger such as GDB to debug applications in Gramine.

3. Test HelloWorld without loading library OS
---------------------------------------------

In :file:`Pal/test`, we provide a test program that can run without the library
OS and directly use the :doc:`host-abi`. If you can successfully run
a |~| ``HelloWorld`` program, congratulations, you have a working PAL loader.

4. Implementing PAL host ABI
----------------------------

Now it is time to complete the whole implementation of the :doc:`host-abi`. Once
you have finished implementation, use the regression tests to confirm whether
your implementation is compatible with the PAL Host ABI. To run the regression
tests, run the following steps::

    cd Pal/regression
    make regression

5. Running application with library OS
--------------------------------------

With a completely implemented PAL, you should be able to run any applications
that are currently supported by Gramine on your new platform. Please be aware
you should not try to build any application binaries on your target host. On the
contrary, you should build them on a Linux host and ship them to your target
host.
