CI-Examples/README.md, before:

# Example Integrations

This folder contains application integration examples. They were tested on
Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.

For instructions how to build and run each application under Graphene, please
see the README.md in each subdirectory.

Please note that most of the examples use oversimplified configurations which
are not secure. E.g., we frequently specify security-critical files as
`sgx.allowed_files`. If you take these examples as templates for your own
production workloads, please inspect and harden the configurations.

We recommend to look at the (extensively commented) Redis example to get an idea
how to write the README, Makefile and manifest files. If you want to contribute
a new example to Graphene and you take the Redis example as a template, we
recommend to remove the comments from your copies as they only add noise (see
e.g. Memcached for a "stripped-down" example).

## Building Examples

All our examples use simple Makefiles to build the examples and enable them
under Graphene. Use one of these commands:
- `make`: create non-SGX no-debug-log manifest
- `make DEBUG=1`: create non-SGX debug-log manifest
- `make SGX=1`: create SGX no-debug-log manifest
- `make SGX=1 DEBUG=1`: create SGX debug-log manifest

Use `make clean` to remove Graphene-generated artifacts and `make distclean` to
remove all build artifacts (if applicable).

## How to Contribute?

Please put your application sample in a subdirectory with a comprehensible name.
Ideally, the subdirectory name should be the same as your application. In
addition, your application sample should have the following elements:

- `README.md`:
  Please document the tested environment and instructions for building and
  running the application. If your application sample has any known issues or
  requirements, please also specify them in the documentation.

- `Makefile`:
  Users should be able to build your application sample by running the `make`
  command. If your application needs extra building steps, please document them
  in the `README.md`. In addition, we ask you to provide sufficient comments in
  the `Makefile` to help users understand the build process. If your application
  also runs on Graphene-SGX, please include the commands for signing and
  retrieving the token in the `Makefile`.

- Manifest:
  Please provide the manifest needed for running your application sample. Do not
  hard-code any user-specific path or personal info in the manifest. The ideal
  way is to create a manifest template that contains variables to be replaced by
  runtime options in `Makefile`. See other subdirectories for examples of the
  manifest templates. We also ask you to provide sufficient comments in all the
  manifests to help users understand the environment.

- Sample inputs and test suites:
  If you have any inputs and test suites for testing the application,
  please provide them in the same subdirectory, too.

Please do not include any tarball of source code or binaries in the application
samples. If an application requires downloading the source code or binaries,
please provide instructions in the `README.md`, or download them automatically
and verify the checksums as part of the build process.

Commit message:

Rename Graphene to Gramine
Signed-off-by: Dmitrii Kuvaiskii <dmitrii.kuvaiskii@intel.com>

CI-Examples/README.md, after:

# Example Integrations

This folder contains application integration examples. They were tested on
Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.

For instructions how to build and run each application under Gramine, please
see the README.md in each subdirectory.

Please note that most of the examples use oversimplified configurations which
are not secure. E.g., we frequently specify security-critical files as
`sgx.allowed_files`. If you take these examples as templates for your own
production workloads, please inspect and harden the configurations.

We recommend to look at the (extensively commented) Redis example to get an idea
how to write the README, Makefile and manifest files. If you want to contribute
a new example to Gramine and you take the Redis example as a template, we
recommend to remove the comments from your copies as they only add noise (see
e.g. Memcached for a "stripped-down" example).

## Building Examples

All our examples use simple Makefiles to build the examples and enable them
under Gramine. Use one of these commands:
- `make`: create non-SGX no-debug-log manifest
- `make DEBUG=1`: create non-SGX debug-log manifest
- `make SGX=1`: create SGX no-debug-log manifest
- `make SGX=1 DEBUG=1`: create SGX debug-log manifest

Use `make clean` to remove Gramine-generated artifacts and `make distclean` to
remove all build artifacts (if applicable).

## How to Contribute?

Please put your application sample in a subdirectory with a comprehensible name.
Ideally, the subdirectory name should be the same as your application. In
addition, your application sample should have the following elements:

- `README.md`:
  Please document the tested environment and instructions for building and
  running the application. If your application sample has any known issues or
  requirements, please also specify them in the documentation.

- `Makefile`:
  Users should be able to build your application sample by running the `make`
  command. If your application needs extra building steps, please document them
  in the `README.md`. In addition, we ask you to provide sufficient comments in
  the `Makefile` to help users understand the build process. If your application
  also runs on Gramine-SGX, please include the commands for signing and
  retrieving the token in the `Makefile`.

- Manifest:
  Please provide the manifest needed for running your application sample. Do not
  hard-code any user-specific path or personal info in the manifest. The ideal
  way is to create a manifest template that contains variables to be replaced by
  runtime options in `Makefile`. See other subdirectories for examples of the
  manifest templates. We also ask you to provide sufficient comments in all the
  manifests to help users understand the environment.

- Sample inputs and test suites:
  If you have any inputs and test suites for testing the application,
  please provide them in the same subdirectory, too.

Please do not include any tarball of source code or binaries in the application
samples. If an application requires downloading the source code or binaries,
please provide instructions in the `README.md`, or download them automatically
and verify the checksums as part of the build process.
