Documentation/index.rst, before:

************************
Introduction to Graphene
************************

Graphene is a |~| lightweight guest OS, designed to run a |~| single Linux
application with minimal host requirements. Graphene can run applications in an
isolated environment with benefits comparable to running a |~| complete OS in a
|~| virtual machine -- including guest customization, ease of porting to
different host OSes, and process migration.

Graphene supports running Linux applications using the :term:`Intel SGX <SGX>`
(Software Guard Extensions) technology (we call this version **Graphene-SGX**).
With Intel SGX, applications are secured in hardware-encrypted memory regions
(called SGX enclaves). SGX protects code and data in the enclave against
privileged software attacks and against physical attacks on the hardware off the
CPU package (e.g., cold-boot attacks on RAM). Graphene is able to run unmodified
applications inside SGX enclaves, without the toll of manually porting the
application to the SGX environment.

External documentation
======================

This website contains the official documentation of Graphene. For external
contributions and additional resources, please visit
https://graphene-contrib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/. Note that this link contains
unofficial documents; these documents are not guaranteed to always be up-to-date
and correct.


Building and running Graphene
=============================

See :doc:`quickstart` for instructions how to quickly build and run Graphene.
For full build instructions, see :doc:`building`. To deploy Graphene in the
cloud, see :doc:`cloud-deployment`.

Contacts and Contributing
=========================

For bug reports, post an issue on our GitHub repository:
https://github.com/oscarlab/graphene/issues.

For any questions, please send an email to support@graphene-project.io
(`public archive <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/graphene-support>`__).

If you want to contribute to the project, please see :doc:`devel/contributing`.
Thank you for your interest!

*****************
Table of Contents
*****************

.. toctree::
   :caption: Introduction
   :maxdepth: 2

   quickstart
   building
   manifest-syntax
   attestation
   cloud-deployment
   sgx-intro
   glossary

.. toctree::
   :caption: Tutorials
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorials/pytorch/index.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Manual pages
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   manpages/*

.. toctree::
   :caption: Developing Graphene
   :maxdepth: 1

   devel/contributing
   devel/DCO/index
   devel/howto-doc
   devel/coding-style
   devel/setup
   devel/debugging
   devel/benchmarks
   devel/performance
   devel/new-syscall
   devel/packaging

.. toctree::
   :caption: LibOS

   libos/shim-init

.. toctree::
   :caption: PAL

   pal/host-abi
   pal/porting

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Rename Graphene to Gramine
Signed-off-by: Dmitrii Kuvaiskii <dmitrii.kuvaiskii@intel.com>

Documentation/index.rst, after:

***********************
Introduction to Gramine
***********************

Gramine is a |~| lightweight guest OS, designed to run a |~| single Linux
application with minimal host requirements. Gramine can run applications in an
isolated environment with benefits comparable to running a |~| complete OS in a
|~| virtual machine -- including guest customization, ease of porting to
different host OSes, and process migration.

Gramine supports running Linux applications using the :term:`Intel SGX <SGX>`
(Software Guard Extensions) technology (we sometimes call this version
**Gramine-SGX**).  With Intel SGX, applications are secured in
hardware-encrypted memory regions (called SGX enclaves). SGX protects code and
data in the enclave against privileged software attacks and against physical
attacks on the hardware off the CPU package (e.g., cold-boot attacks on RAM).
Gramine is able to run unmodified applications inside SGX enclaves, without the
toll of manually porting the application to the SGX environment.

External documentation
======================

This website contains the official documentation of Gramine. For external
contributions and additional resources, please visit
https://gramine-contrib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/. Note that this link contains
unofficial documents; these documents are not guaranteed to always be up-to-date
and correct.


Building and running Gramine
============================

See :doc:`quickstart` for instructions how to quickly build and run Gramine.
For full build instructions, see :doc:`building`. To deploy Gramine in the
cloud, see :doc:`cloud-deployment`.

Contacts and Contributing
=========================

For bug reports, post an issue on our GitHub repository:
https://github.com/gramineproject/gramine/issues.

For any questions, please send an email to support@gramineproject.io
(`public archive <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/gramine-support>`__).

If you want to contribute to the project, please see :doc:`devel/contributing`.
Thank you for your interest!

*****************
Table of Contents
*****************

.. toctree::
   :caption: Introduction
   :maxdepth: 2

   quickstart
   building
   manifest-syntax
   attestation
   cloud-deployment
   sgx-intro
   glossary

.. toctree::
   :caption: Tutorials
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorials/pytorch/index.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Manual pages
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   manpages/*

.. toctree::
   :caption: Developing Gramine
   :maxdepth: 1

   devel/contributing
   devel/DCO/index
   devel/howto-doc
   devel/coding-style
   devel/setup
   devel/debugging
   devel/benchmarks
   devel/performance
   devel/new-syscall
   devel/packaging

.. toctree::
   :caption: LibOS

   libos/shim-init

.. toctree::
   :caption: PAL

   pal/host-abi
   pal/porting

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
