Documentation/quickstart.rst, before:

Quick start
===========

.. highlight:: sh

Quick start without SGX support
-------------------------------

#. Clone the Graphene repository::

      git clone https://github.com/oscarlab/graphene.git

#. Build Graphene::

      sudo apt-get install -y autoconf bison build-essential gawk meson \
          python3 python3-click python3-jinja2 wget
      cd graphene
      make
      meson setup build/ --buildtype=release -Ddirect=enabled -Dsgx=disabled
      ninja -C build/
      sudo ninja -C build/ install

#. Build and run :program:`helloworld`::

      cd LibOS/shim/test/regression
      make
      graphene-direct helloworld

#. For more complex examples, see :file:`CI-Examples` directory.

Quick start with SGX support
-------------------------------

Graphene requires several features from your system:

- the FSGSBASE feature of recent processors must be enabled in the Linux kernel,
- the Intel SGX driver must be built in the Linux kernel,
- Intel SGX SDK/PSW and (optionally) Intel DCAP must be installed.

If your system doesn't meet these requirements, please refer to more detailed
descriptions in :doc:`building`.

#. Ensure that Intel SGX is enabled on your platform using
   :program:`is_sgx_available`.

#. Clone the Graphene repository::

      git clone https://github.com/oscarlab/graphene.git
      cd graphene

#. Prepare a signing key::

      openssl genrsa -3 -out Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/signer/enclave-key.pem 3072

#. Build Graphene and Graphene-SGX::

      sudo apt-get install -y autoconf bison build-essential gawk \
          libcurl4-openssl-dev libprotobuf-c-dev meson protobuf-c-compiler \
          python3 python3-click python3-jinja2 python3-pip python3-protobuf \
          wget
      python3 -m pip install toml>=0.10
      make
      make ISGX_DRIVER_PATH="" SGX=1                  # this assumes Linux 5.11+
      meson setup build/ --buildtype=release -Ddirect=enabled -Dsgx=enabled
      ninja -C build/
      sudo ninja -C build/ install

#. Set ``vm.mmap_min_addr=0`` in the system (*only required for the legacy SGX
   driver and not needed for newer DCAP/in-kernel drivers*)::

      sudo sysctl vm.mmap_min_addr=0

   Note that this is an inadvisable configuration for production systems.

#. Build and run :program:`helloworld`::

      cd LibOS/shim/test/regression
      make SGX=1
      make SGX=1 sgx-tokens
      graphene-sgx helloworld

Troubleshooting
---------------

- When installing from sources, Graphene executables are placed under
  ``/usr/local/bin``. Some Linux distributions (notably CentOS) do not search
  for executables under this path. If your system reports that Graphene programs
  can not be found, you might need to edit your configuration files so that
  ``/usr/local/bin`` is in your path (in ``PATH`` environment variable).

- If you invoked ``meson setup`` once, the next invocation of this command will
  *not* have any effect. Instead, to change the build configuration, use ``meson
  configure``. For example, if you built with ``meson setup build/
  -Dsgx=disabled`` first and now want to enable SGX, type ``meson configure
  build/ -Dsgx=enabled``.

Running sample applications
---------------------------

We prepared and tested several applications to demonstrate Graphene and
Graphene-SGX usability. These applications can be found in the
:file:`CI-Examples` folder in the repository, each containing a short README
with instructions how to test it. We recommend starting with a simpler,
thoroughly documented example of Redis, to understand manifest options and
features of Graphene.

Please note that these sample applications are tested on Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.
Most of these applications are also known to run correctly on
Fedora/RHEL/CentOS, but with caveats. One caveat is that Makefiles should be
invoked with ``ARCH_LIBDIR=/lib64 make``. Another caveat is that applications
that rely on specific versions/builds of Glibc may break (our GCC example is
known to work only on Ubuntu).

Commit message:

Rename Graphene to Gramine
Signed-off-by: Dmitrii Kuvaiskii <dmitrii.kuvaiskii@intel.com>

Documentation/quickstart.rst, after:

Quick start
===========

.. highlight:: sh

Quick start without SGX support
-------------------------------

#. Clone the Gramine repository::

      git clone https://github.com/gramineproject/gramine.git

#. Build Gramine::

      sudo apt-get install -y autoconf bison build-essential gawk meson \
          python3 python3-click python3-jinja2 wget
      cd gramine
      make
      meson setup build/ --buildtype=release -Ddirect=enabled -Dsgx=disabled
      ninja -C build/
      sudo ninja -C build/ install

#. Build and run :program:`helloworld`::

      cd LibOS/shim/test/regression
      make
      gramine-direct helloworld

#. For more complex examples, see :file:`CI-Examples` directory.

Quick start with SGX support
----------------------------

Gramine requires several features from your system:

- the FSGSBASE feature of recent processors must be enabled in the Linux kernel,
- the Intel SGX driver must be built in the Linux kernel,
- Intel SGX SDK/PSW and (optionally) Intel DCAP must be installed.

If your system doesn't meet these requirements, please refer to more detailed
descriptions in :doc:`building`.

#. Ensure that Intel SGX is enabled on your platform using
   :program:`is_sgx_available`.

#. Clone the Gramine repository::

      git clone https://github.com/gramineproject/gramine.git
      cd gramine

#. Prepare a signing key::

      openssl genrsa -3 -out Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/signer/enclave-key.pem 3072

#. Build Gramine with SGX support::

      sudo apt-get install -y autoconf bison build-essential gawk \
          libcurl4-openssl-dev libprotobuf-c-dev meson protobuf-c-compiler \
          python3 python3-click python3-jinja2 python3-pip python3-protobuf \
          wget
      python3 -m pip install toml>=0.10
      make
      make ISGX_DRIVER_PATH="" SGX=1                  # this assumes Linux 5.11+
      meson setup build/ --buildtype=release -Ddirect=enabled -Dsgx=enabled
      ninja -C build/
      sudo ninja -C build/ install

#. Set ``vm.mmap_min_addr=0`` in the system (*only required for the legacy SGX
   driver and not needed for newer DCAP/in-kernel drivers*)::

      sudo sysctl vm.mmap_min_addr=0

   Note that this is an inadvisable configuration for production systems.

#. Build and run :program:`helloworld`::

      cd LibOS/shim/test/regression
      make SGX=1
      make SGX=1 sgx-tokens
      gramine-sgx helloworld

Troubleshooting
---------------

- When installing from sources, Gramine executables are placed under
  ``/usr/local/bin``. Some Linux distributions (notably CentOS) do not search
  for executables under this path. If your system reports that Gramine programs
  can not be found, you might need to edit your configuration files so that
  ``/usr/local/bin`` is in your path (in ``PATH`` environment variable).

- If you invoked ``meson setup`` once, the next invocation of this command will
  *not* have any effect. Instead, to change the build configuration, use ``meson
  configure``. For example, if you built with ``meson setup build/
  -Dsgx=disabled`` first and now want to enable SGX, type ``meson configure
  build/ -Dsgx=enabled``.

Running sample applications
---------------------------

We prepared and tested several applications to demonstrate Gramine usability.
These applications can be found in the :file:`CI-Examples` folder in the
repository, each containing a short README with instructions how to test it. We
recommend starting with a simpler, thoroughly documented example of Redis, to
understand manifest options and features of Gramine.

Additional applications enabled in Gramine can be found in a separate repository
https://github.com/gramineproject/examples.

Please note that these sample applications are tested on Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.
Most of these applications are also known to run correctly on
Fedora/RHEL/CentOS, but with caveats. One caveat is that Makefiles should be
invoked with ``ARCH_LIBDIR=/lib64 make``. Another caveat is that applications
that rely on specific versions/builds of Glibc may break (our GCC example is
known to work only on Ubuntu).
